




Texas Holdem Calculator 1.0.0.0 (stable)



























Simply put the application aides in the calculation of pot/hand odds for Texas Hold’em 
players.

Contents
Texas Holdem Calculator 1.0.0.0 (stable)	1
Installation and Running	3
Application Features	3
Main Tab	3
Pot Odds Calculator	4
Hand Simulations	4
Context Menu Options	5
Options	5
Exit	5
Show Turn, River or Flop	6
Stats Tab	6
Runner-Runner Odds	6
Ace and Card Against Bigger Ace Hole Cards	6
Hands Tab	6
Options Tab	7
Hole Odds Tab	7






















Installation and Running

1.	Downloaded and extract the .cab from the following url:
https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=239546&package_id=291
930&release_id=629839)
2.	Double-click and follow the on screen instructions.
3.	Double-click the provided shortcut in the programs menu.  Alternatively you can 
run the executable from “/Program Files/TexasHoldemCalculator.exe”.


Application Features

A splash screen will display while the calculator initializes.  Once the splash ends you will 
be at the main calculator tab (labeled “Hand”).  The application consists of 5 tabs:

1.	Hand – For current pot odds/hand odds and hand simulation.
2.	Stats – Contains additional statistics, etc.
3.	Hands – Some common starting hands to play.
4.	Options – Currently empty.
5.	Hole Odds – Odds for pocket pairs against various hands.



Main Tab

The main tab consists of the following areas:

1.	5 pre-drawn game cards (burn cards have been removed), including the flop, turn 
and river.
2.	Pot size text box, this can be changed by clicking on it.
3.	Bet size text box, this can be changed by clicking on it.
4.	Number of outs text box, as with the pot and bet size this can be changed.
5.	Pot/Bet percentage label
6.	Hand odds ratio label.
7.	Flop/Turn/River percentage labels.
8.	Hole cards (displayed)
9.	New hand button.



Pot Odds Calculator

   By clicking the pot size textbox an input dialog is displayed.  You can enter a new 
value and click OK to accept or cancel to return to the previous one.  The same is true for 
the bet size textbox and outs textbox.  However, the total number outs will be adjusted to 
a max of 47 for outs greater than that amount, i.e. it’s not possible to have more than 47 
outs.

After entering any value the labels are adjusted accordingly:


1.	Pot size shows the pot to bet ratio for example, pot of 10 and bet of 1 is a 10:1 
ratio.
2.	Bet size label is the maximum bet you can call based on your outs and the pot 
size.
3.	The hands odds label is your hand ratio showing how likely you are to draw to 
a hand with the number of outs selected.  For example with 4 outs, and 
precision set to 0, you are a 5:1 underdog to make your hand.
4.	The make flop label is the hand odds as a percentage, for example with 4 outs 
and being a 5:1 underdog you will make your hand on the flop 16% of the 
time.
5.	Similarly to the flop the turn shows how likely you are to make your hand by 
percentage.  Using the flop numbers you will make your hand 9% of the time.
6.	On the turn using the flop ratios you will make your hand 9% of the time.


      When the percentage that you are likely to draw your out yields a positive 
expectation, the Flop, River or Turn percentage label will show a green back color.  If it is 
negative it will show as red.  This is an indicator that you will lose money in the long run 
so you in most cases should not continue betting.
      Similar to the hand odds back color the bet size textbox will be red if you the bet 
you need to make is less than the maximum that you can call.  For example with 4 outs 
and a Pot size of 500 with a bet to call of 125 you are a 5:1 underdog and will only hit 
your hand 16% of the time, with precision set to 0.  Your maximum callable bet is 82 so 
in this case you will lose money in the long run so the bet label would be red.  However, 
if the bet was less than or equal to 82 in the worst case you would break even so your 
expectation is zero.  Any bet less than the maximum would show a green label.
      
      
      
Hand Simulations

The 5 pre-drawn cards, flop, turn and river are generated based on a simulated deal.  Also 
the two hole cards follow this hand generation.  A random set of unique cards is dealt 
every time the “New Hand” button is pressed.  Depending on the number of players dealt 
to, the default is one, based on the menu setting; you will receive two consecutive cards 
or the first card and the nth + 1 card.  For example for a two player deal you receive card 
one and card 3.  When the flop, turn and river is dealt a burn card is removed to simulate 
an actual Texas Hold’em game.  By simulating hands you can practice making decision 
based on your pot odds to see if your skill are getting better or worse.



Context Menu Options


The context menu can be seen by pressing and holding in the “Hand” tab panel.  The 
menu structure is as follows:
 
1.	Menu
a.	Options
i.	Calc Precision
1.	0, 1 and 2 digits
ii.	Deck Theme
1.	Border
2.	Default
3.	Simple
4.	Small
5.	Svg
iii.	Players To Deal
1.	1-9 players
b.	Exit
2.	Show [Flop/Turn/River]



Options

1.	Calc Precision – If 0 is selected pot odds and percentages are rounded to 
whole numbers.  Otherwise they are rounded to the nearest tenths or 
hundredths.
2.	Deck Theme – Selecting of the themes changes the theme for the cards drawn.
3.	Players To Deal – The cards you receive are based on dealing to 1-9 players.  
The deck is randomly shuffled on every new hand deal.



Exit

Simply exist the application!


Show Turn, River or Flop
If this is a new deal, “Show Flop” will be available in which case the first three pre-drawn 
cards are shown.  Similarly if it’s the flop, “Show Turn” is displayed and if it’s the turn, 
“Show River” is displayed.  “Finish” is displayed after all cards have been shown.



Stats Tab

      The stats tab offers two additional statistics that can come into consideration 
when playing Texas Hold’me.  Runner-runner odds and chance that your hole hand, 
containing an Ace, is up against a bigger Ace.



Runner-Runner Odds

      This is simply the probability of making your hand with two consecutive outs 
been drawn.  You simply make sure the outs on the “Hand” tab are set appropriately.  
For example with 4 outs you are a 179:1 underdog, with precision set to 0, to draw two 
consecutive outs to make your hand.



Ace and Card Against Bigger Ace Hole Cards

      This statistics is based on hole cards only.  Simply change the player’s textbox by 
clicking and setting the appropriate number of players.  The textbox will automatically 
adjust to 23 players if more are selected since it is impossible to deal to more with only 
52 cards per deck.  After changing the number of outs, select your next whole card 2 – 
King and the probability, ration and percent labels will automatically be calculated.  For 
example, a set of hole cards A2 with 9 players has a probability of .65 or 65% chance of 
facing an Ace with a larger kicker.
      
      
      
Hands Tab

The hands tab contains two sets of recommended hands based on David Sklansky’s work.  
The default is the modified which shows a tighter set of hands versus the basic which is 
a list of all playable hands but not necessarily best in all positions.
Options Tab

Currently empty.


Hole Odds Tab

The Hold Odds tab shows a list of hole cards against various opposing hand rankings.  
For example a High pocket pair versus a lower is an 80.3% favorite to 19.7% underdog.  
These are useful in determining whether or not to call an All-In bet.
Texas Holdem Calculator 1.0.0.0  
2008

Document version 1.0.0.0	Page 7

